Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Rules, 2007

Published vide G.O. Ms. No.208, Revenue (ASSN-POT), dated 22-2-2007, Published in A.P. Gazette, RS to Part I, dated 2-2007.

AP163

In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977, as amended by the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (POT) (Amendment) Act, 2007 and in supersession of the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Rules, 1977 issued in G.O. Ms. No.281, Revenue, dated 2-2-1978, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules :-
Rules

1. Short title: - These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Rules, 2007.
2. Definitions: - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) "Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977;

(b) "Authorised Officer" means the Officer Authorised by the District Collector not below the rank of Mandal Revenue Officer/ Tahsildar under sub-section (1) of Section 4 and sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the Act;

(c) "Form" means a form appended to these rules.

3. Procedure for eviction of the transferee and taking possession and restoration of assigned lands: - The District Collector or the Authorised Officer shall, before taking action under clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act, issue notices in Form No.1 and Form II to the persons who have transferred and also to the persons who have acquired any assigned land in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Act. The notices shall be served by delivering a copy on transferor and transferee or some adult male member of the family of such transferor or transferee at their usual place of above or to their authorised agent or by affixing a copy thereof at some conspicuous place of their last known place of residence or on some conspicuous part of the assigned land. After the expiry of (fifteen) 15 days specified in the notice, the District Collector or the Authorised Officer shall consider the representation, if any, received with reference to the said notice and pass such orders as he thinks fit and proper. If it is held that the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 3 of the Act, have been contravened in respect of any assigned land, a copy of the order shall be communicated to the Village Officer concerned under whose territorial jurisdiction the land is situated for taking possession of the land and thereupon the land shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
4. The District Collector or the Authorised Officer not below the rank of Mandal Revenue Officer/Tahsildar shall furnish the particulars of lands assigned in his jurisdiction in Form No.ILI to the Registering Officer concerned, within (forty five) 45 days from the date of commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2007 and further continue to furnish such particulars in the same proforma whenever new assignments are made from time to time.
5. Under the proviso to Section 7 of the Act, any person voluntarily disclosing or surrendering the assigned land in his possession within (90) days of commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2007 shall make such voluntary disclosure or surrender to the Collector or Authorised Officer by way of declaration in Form No.IV. On receipt of such declaration, the Collector or the Authorised Officer shall proceed to take immediate possession of the land and dispose of the land as per the provisions contained in Section 4 of the Act.
6. The Government shall issue notification under Section 4 of the Act for notifying area/lands for utilisation for public purpose in Form No.V.