   YSR J Saswatha Bhuhakku Mariyu Bhu-Raksha Pathakam
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (DRAFT)
SURVEY TECHNOLOGY (BASIC CONCEPTS)
1. What is GNSS?
A GNSS, or Global Navigation Satellite System, is a generic name for a group of artificial satellites that send position and timing data from their high orbits. The GPS, or Global Positioning System, is just one of the many different sets of satellites that can provide such data.
2. What is GNSS Rover?
It is an all-in-one handheld GNSS receiver.
3. What is the use of GNSS rover?
A Rover is a survey tool used to receive signals from GPS satellites and CORS to
calculate geo-coordinate position X, Y, Z with an accuracy of 3 to 4 centimeters with reference to the CORS reference station.
4. What is Reference Station?
Also called base-Station, where a GNSS receiver is installed at a known location. The location is pre-surveyed by either traditional methods or by GNSS observation for multiple days. The reference-station then provides error data for every observation compared to its known location.
5. What is CORS (Continuous Operating Reference Station) Network?
A network of permanently installed GNSS receivers at reference stations and raw GPS satellites observations are continuously send to central servers. The central server processes and analyses the reference stations data and provide its data & corrections through Wi-Fi internet or mobile communication to authorized users.
6. Is CORS available 24X7?
Yes, the CORS network is available 24 hours per day, 7 days a week and 365 days a year.
7. What is accuracy of CORS network?
3 to 4 centimeter X, Y positional accuracy.
8. What is the advantage of CORS?
There is no need of setting up own reference station each time for estimated corrections, CORS provides real time positioning service with an accuracy of 3 to 4 centimeter.
9. What are geo-coordinates?
Earth coordinates: Latitude (Y) and Longitude (X) and Height (Z) in specific earth coordinate system. In India, n for civilian mapping & survey applications.
Datum: WGS 84 and Projection: UTM
10. Can I measure length and areas using geo-coordinates in Latitude and Longitude?
    
   The curved geo-coordinates in latitude and longitude coordinates are transformed to plane coordinates (in meters) using appropriate projection. In India UTM (Universal Transverse Mercator projection is used for maps.
PRE-DRONE FLYING
11. What is GCP?
Ground control points (or GCPs) are points on the ground with known geo- coordinates and can precisely pinpoint in the drone image for processing and generation of an Ortho Rectified Image (ORI)
12. Why are planting of stones for important before drone flying?
The stones are planted so that can be clearly visible in the drone image and therefore can be used in the processing of ORI, ORI quality check and in ground truth & ground validation.
13. Is it necessary to whitewash the stones identified for GCPs?
The whitewashed stones can be identified clearly and accurately on the drone image while processing to generate ORIs.
14. What is the ideal location for planting stone for GCPs
It is based on size and shape of the village as per the drone flight plan. For details refer the SOP.
15. Is the drone flying possible before planning stones for GCPs?
Though technically it is possible to take up drone flying before completing planting stones for GCPs, it is not advisable to conduct the drone flying before completing the pre-drone survey activities. This is because planting stones for GCPs will improve the accuracy & efficiency of ORI generation and further for ORI quality check and ground truthing for creation of permanent survey records.
16. What are the reasons for gaps in drone image?
There are two main sources of error:
(i) village boundary .kml file may not be correctly generated covering complete
village area & check datum set for *.kml file is set as WGS84
(ii) drone flight flying planning should ensure coverage as per the *.kml file
coordinates.
There may be some operational problems like drifting of drone from the flight path while flying due to winds or set-up of flying parameters. The pilot may check complete coverage of village area before closing the flying.
17. What is the ideal day time for drone flying?
Drone flying is suggested before noon for better sun illumination and to avoid shadows.
18. What is the solution for cloud patches in drone images?
Drone flying should be avoided in cloudy areas. Re-flying is suggested to cover the cloud areas.
OTHO-RECTIFIED IMAGES
19. What is an Ortho Rectified Image?
Ortho Rectified Image (ORI) is a computer-generated image of the drone image in which distortions caused by terrain relief and drone camera tilts have been
       
   removed and accurately referenced to ground coordinates using GCPs and DEM. ORI has uniform scale and is accurately referenced to the ground coordinates, so that it can be used to measure position, lengths and areas accurately with 10 centimeters, just like any other maps.
20. Are ORIs generated tile wise or village wise?
All frames of drone images of entire village are processed in a photogrammetric software using GCPs to generate single geometrically seamless and color balanced ortho-rectified image.
21. What are the parameters to be checked for ORI quality?
The following parameters are to be checked before using ORI for survey.
a) ORI visual interpretation quality: The image quality should be such that all the
ground features especially land parcel bunds, stones, land parcel junctions,
planted stones can be clearly identified.
b) Geometricquality:Thegeo-coordinates(X,Y)ofplantedstoneswithGNSSrover
may be compared with that of the ORIs at different locations of village. The
difference in geo-coordinates, X and Y should be less than 10 cms in all points.
c) Measure lengths between two stones with rover/ETS and in ORI: The length
difference should less than 10 cms.
d) Measureareastakingplantedstonesasreferencewithrover/ETSandinORI:The
area difference should less than 10 sqcm.
e) Checkforanyimageblurringorlowcontrast,cloud,geometricdistortions.
22. Should all the ORIs sheets/tiles in a village be set aside, if some of ORI are bad? Yes, ORI should be seamless geometrically for entire village. If some ORIs are bad and not meeting quality check parameters, all the ORIs of that particular village should not be considered and request should be made for reprocessing.
23. Can GNSS rover can be used for survey for generation LPM instead from ORIs? Technically yes. But the use of rovers in place of ORIs will be very time consuming and cumbersome. It will also be operationally difficult to extend to large number of villages as many more field surveyors and rovers will be required for the purpose.
24. Why are the digital ORIs blurred and not useful for vectorization for LPMs and generation of digital spatial map?
The supplied ORIs are in ECW format, which is a lossy compressed image format, not suitable for land survey. The SOI may be requested to supply ORIs in geo-tiff format to meet the quality requirement for vectorization for LPMs and generation of digital spatial map.
25. Can QGIS be used for vectorization of LPMs?
Yes, QGIS is an opensource GIS software. Even though the drone images are processed and ORIs are generated using AGISOFT METASHAPE, or ARC/GIS commercial software, QGIS supports all user-friendly image processing & GIS functionalities required for vectorization and preparation village spatial GIS maps.
26. In certain cases, the positional error ranges from 1.2m to 6m and area error up to 10 cents is observed with ORIs. What is the solution?
Reject the ORIs and request SOI for geometric (position, length and areas) quality checked ORIs.
 
   27. The soft copy of the ORIs are very poor, image is blurred & pixelated. Is the problem that of QGIS or Arc/GIS?
The problem is with the quality of ORIs and not with QGIS or Arc/GIS. If ORIs are in original resolution, QGIS can be used for enhancing visual interpretation quality
28. Are ORI and rovers useful for survey in tall plantation and forest areas?
In thick tall plantation and forest areas, ORI may not show the ground and land parcel bunds, junctions. The Rovers may also not give accurate measurements due to GPS signal fragmentation. In such cases, longer duration of about 10 min to 15 min observation may give acceptable position (X, Y) and accuracy. However, this depends on plantation/ forest leaf canopy geometry & density and terrain condition. In such areas, due to technology limitations, traditional ground survey methods like chain survey may be conducted to meet the timelines. However, additional manpower will be required to be deployed in such villages.
GROUND TRUTHING
29. What is Ground Truthing?
Ground Truthing is the demarcation of undisputed permanent boundaries of individual land parcels with the ORI and PoLR data. The village survey team should conduct ground truth duly inviting all the land parcel pattadars, concerned Government departments and all stakeholders as per schedule dates-S&B act.1923, Sec.9(1).
30. In case of land parcel boundaries that are not visible in the ORI, what is procedure to be followed?
The GNSS rover or ETS can be used to record the geo-coordinates of the field boundary points. Form-18 should be used to fill these boundary geo-coordinates.
31. In case of joint holders, should the division land parcel be taken up during ground truthing?
Answer: Yes. As per the willingness of the land holders, the sub-division geo- coordinates should be made using rover. Form-18 should be used to fill and record the division geo-coordinates following which the division boundaries can be drawn as a dotted line in the ORI.
32. In case of amalgamated lands, where field bunds are existing on the ground like aquaculture lands, should the division of land parcel be taken up during ground truthing?
Yes, as per the records or as per the willingness of land holders. The information is to be collected as per the Form-20. The division geo-coordinates may be made using rover. Form-18 should be used to fill and record the division geo-coordinates. The division boundaries should be drawn as per the dotted line in the ORI.
33. Does the pattadars get receipt after ground trothing?
Yes, each individual is to be given a chalta Number in both Appendix-2 and Form- 16.
34. In case some of the ORIs are poor quality and not passed in the QC in a particular village, can ground truthing be taken up for the area where the ORIs are good?
    
   Case-1: No. if any one of the ORIs of the entire village is not meeting position, lengths and area accuracies. This is because the entire village drone images are processed as seamless image to generate ORI.
Case-2: Yes. If some of ORIs are of visually poor quality (image is blurred, not able to demarcate land parcel bunds and not able to interpret land features), ground truthing can continue with the good ORIs. The poor quality ORIs may be rejected and a fresh request made for enhanced ORI images.
ASSIGNED LANDS
35. In the absence of the original assignee and their descendants. X is enjoying the land for a long period. In this case in whose name LPM should be generated?
Answer by Assignment Department:
Answer by Assignment Department: As per the AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977, when the assigned land is possessed by other than the assignee, the assignment patta shall be cancelled duly following the procedure stipulated u/s 4 of AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers ) Act, 1977 and it shall be resumed and it shall be assigned to X, if the X is eligible1 for assignment following the procedure for issue of D Form Patta. Then only LPM may be generated in the name of X, till such time, it will be treated as AWD.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Section 3(1) of the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977, prohibits the transfer of assigned lands, clearly laying down that no right or title in such assigned land shall vest in any person acquiring the land by such transfer. Also, section 4(1) provides that in case of violation of such condition, the possession of the land can be taken after evicting the person in possession through the process prescribed in The Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition Of Transfers) Rules, 1977. Also, the appeal period (90 days for the appeal against the order passed by MRO with RDO and another 90 days for the order passed by RDO with the District Collector).
Following the show-cause notice for cancellation, these may be treated as dispute cases. After the final decision of the DC and the assignment patta is cancelled, and if land is reassigned to X, then LPM can be generated in the name of X.
36. A was assigned patta in one survey number but has been enjoying the land in some other survey number, LPM should be generated for A in the survey number assigned to him or enjoyed by him?
Answer by Assignment Department: The MMM shall record statement from the both assignees after explaining the status, if both assignees agree, then he will recommend to the Tahsildar to change the previous pattas/Assignment orders as per the enjoyment, then only LPM may be generated. Otherwise as per their pattas, land possession is to be changed, then only LPM may be generated.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Alternately, during the PoLR process, the VRO may report all such cases to Tehsildar who may after due enquiry regarding acceptance by
1 Eligibility of assignment include resident of that Mandal where the land is proposed for assignment; must be B.P.L; Ex-service persons (NCOs’ only); Freedom Fighters ; Political sufferers with priority to be given to the land less poor who occupied unobjectionable Govt., land and doing cultivation
     
   both the assignees change the assignment orders as per enjoyment, followed by modification in the revenue records. The Mobile Magistrates responsibility is to decide on appeals against the decision of the survey officers for both disputed and undisputed boundaries. Does the mobile magistrate enter the picture unless an appeal is made regarding the decision of the survey officer?
37. X was issued D-form patta for an extent 5. 00 Acres. Since there was no way (rastha) for the behind pattadars, as per request of such pattadars, an extent of 0.30 Acres was subdivided form 5.00 acres of assigned land and reflected in the webland. Now during re-survey, the D-patta holder requests for 0.30 acres to mutate in his favour as earlier, what action should taken now?
Answer by Assignment Department: In this case, assigned land was already sub divided as Rastha (way) based on the orders of the Tahsildar and the assignee/D patta holder is having possession only for Acres 4.70 cts. As such, only Acs. 4.70 cts is to be mutated in favour of the Assignee and Acs. 0.30 cts is to be mutated as rastha.
38. A, B and C have been issued D-form pattas separately. But on ground they are in enjoyment in other lands owned by them. How should we proceed further?
Answer by Assignment Department: The MMM shall record statement from the assignees after explaining the status, if the assignees agree, then he will recommend to the Tahsildar to change the previous pattas/Assignment orders as per the enjoyment, then only LPM may be generated. Otherwise as per their pattas, land possession is to be changed, then only LPM may be generated.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION:
1. The question is not clear. In case the lands owned by A, B, and C is more than the eligible 5 acres of dry land (2.5 acres wet land), the process of resumption of assignment lands may be initiated (as per the Section 4A of the AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977) as this will violate the assignment conditions
2. Shall we say the process may be carried out by the Tehsildar instead of MMM?
39. WhosenameistoberecordedastheownerofthelandtillDFormpattaiscancelled for violation? should the Pattadar column be kept blank in the LPM?
Answer by Assignment Department: No, till the D-form patta is cancelled, the assignee name shall be recorded in Pattadar column and also in LPM.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Once the show-cause notice is served to the assignee for cancellation of patta, can this not be treated as disputed cases? Also, under Section 4A of the AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977, the statutory period of appeal against the order of cancellation for patta to RDO and collector is 180 days.
40. Land was assigned to A. Presently, it is in the enjoyment of C, a landless poor who had purchased the land in good faith and valuable consideration prior to 1977? Can we generate LPM in C’s name? if the land is in the enjoyment of D who had purchased land from C through a registered deed, then LPM should be generated in whose name?
Answer by Assignment Department: Ambiguity is in query. Who is the original assignee? It seems C is the first purchaser and D is the second purchaser. In case, both have purchased the assigned land and both cannot be in enjoyment of the
 
   same land at a time. Any kind of alienation is null and void u/s 3 of the Act and action shall be taken to resume the land u/s 4 of the Act for violation of Patta conditions specified u/s 3 of the Act.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Should it not be enquired if C was a landless poor at the time of purchase as it is prior to commencement of the Act and whether he purchased the land in good faith for valuable consideration. If yes, he is protected u/s 3(C) of the Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977.
Though transfer of assigned lands is prohibited under Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 3, it is saved where the land assigned has been purchased by another landless poor in good faith and for valuable consideration from the original assignee prior to the commencement of the 1977 Act. Subsequent to the enquiry, if C comes under the above category and LPM can then be generated in his name. If D is placed in a similar condition as C, the same may hold. In other case, the land will be resumed following due process for eviction of the transferee and taking possession of the assigned land. In that case, it may be classified as ‘AWD’
Shall we make a mention of the provisions of Amendment Act, 2008 here?
41. Assigned land is in the possession of assignees for over 10 years but not cultivated because of water logging? What is the procedure to be adopted?
Answer by Assignment Department: The assignment is granted imposing certain conditions and one of the conditions is that the assigned land shall be brought into cultivation within stipulated time and if this condition is not fulfilled, the assigned land shall be resumed for violation of the patta conditions u/s 4 of the Act. In this case, the land which may cause of water logging should not have be assigned as water bodies are prohibited from assignment under BSO-15.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Shall we include the brief of assignment conditions here? The rules regarding assignment of lands and the conditions incorporated in D-Form pattas not only prohibit alienation of such lands but also provide for its resumption as well as re-grant to eligible persons. The Assignment rules include (i) The assignment of lands shall be free of market value; (ii) lands assigned shall be heritable but not alienable; (iii) lands assigned shall be brought under cultivation within three years; (iv) no land tax shall be collected for the first three years except for the extent if any, which has already been brought under cultivation. Water rate shall, however, be charged if the lands are irrigated with Government water; and (v) cultivation should be by the assignee or the members of his family or with hired labour under the supervision of himself or a member of his family.
42. DformpattaisgrantedtoXbutpossessionisnotyetgiven.Whatshouldbedoneat the stage of resurvey?
Answer by Assignment Department: The Tahsildar should give possession of assigned land to X, if his name was already recorded in Adangal and other revenue records, the assignee name shall be recorded in the resurvey as it was the mistake of authorities. But care should be taken that i. when the assigned patta granted to the assignee, ii. Whether Govt. assigned land is available or not in the Sy.No. mentioned in D Form Patta, iii. Minutes of the Assignment Committee and other connected records.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION:
 
   1. Should we not have survey of the entire government land covered by the assigned serial number? If there is no area in the Sy.No allotted in the D-form patta, then the D-form patta, should we not cancel the patta?
2. Shall we also check whether patta was indeed granted by verifying the completion of survey/sub division work by the Tahsildar; if the D. Form pattas were signed and entered for implementation in village/mandal accounts & in ROR; if the details of assignments have been recorded in D.K.T register of office. etc.
43. X. the present enjoyer on a D-form patta had purchased land in 1981 through a Sadabinama. What procedure should be adopted in the case?
Answer by Assignment Department: D-Form patta which was purchased through sadabinama shall be resumed u/s 4 of the Act. If the validation period of Sadabinama is in force, action shall be taken to restore it to the original assignee/reassign to the purchaser as per the eligibility as per the Provision of Amendment Act No. No.8/2007 and also Amendment Act No. 21/2008, as the transfer of assigned lands/acquisition of assigned lands are prohibited under AP Assigned lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: As per the Amendment Act of 2008, the land may be restored to the original assignee, subject to the condition that he or she is landless poor person as on the date of restoration for one time; or assign to other eligible landless poor person:
44. Besides his own land, a D form patta holder is also enjoying 5 cents of adjacent D form patta land that he had purchased prior to 1977? Should D’s LPM combine both the lands under his enjoyment?
Answer by Assignment Department: No, no D-Form patta shall be transferred or purchased, even it was prior to 1977, as the Act has come into force with retrospective effect and the assignment rules have also come into force from 1954.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Shall we include the following:
As per the A.P. Board Standing Order 15(5), the maximum extent of land which may be assigned to the single individual, shall be limited to 5 Acres of dry land, taking into account, both the assigned and the lands owned by him together. Since he already has a D-form patta of his own, this would make him ineligible for reassignment after the patta is cancelled following due process u/s 4 of the 1977 Act.
45. Land was assigned to A and mortgaged by him to a cooperative band m had purchased the same land when it was auctioned by the co-operative Bank. Should LPM be generated in the name of MP?
Answer by Assignment Department: Yes, there is a provision in Co-operative Act to take over the assigned land when the assignee became defaulter of loan repayment and to conduct option for recovery of loan amount. (Ex. Sub registrar, Srikalahasthi versus Guravaiah, 2009,(3) ALT85). In catena of judgements, the Hon’ble High Court observed that the lands purchased in auction shall lose its character as assigned lands. There are no orders from the Government to mortgage assigned lands after 1999. However, a comprehensive report is under consideration of the Government for issuing of orders in such cases.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: A mortgage in favour of any co-operative society registered or deemed to be registered under the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 is not regarded as an alienation under the AP POTA, 1977. Further, though the orders of the Hon’ble HC that has upheld the rights of purchasers
 
   from auctions by the cooperative banks, given the malpractices observed, the Government is considering taking an appropriate decision to address this issue comprehensively. In the intervening period, such cases may be classified in the disputed category.
46. The land is assigned in favour X. The land has been sub divided and given new number as 1-1. The Sub-Registrar registered the land in favour of Y. Both the lands i.e., Sy.No1 and Sy.No.1-1 are equal having extents in webland in favour of both X and Y what is the procedure to be followed in this case ?
Answer by Assignment Department: As per the sec. 5(1) & (2) Assigned lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977. There is a prohibition of Registration of Assigned lands.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Shall we include the following:
Mere registration of a document shall not confer title on the vendee/alienee, if the property is otherwise covered by clauses (a) to (e) of Section 22-A (Act 4 of 1999) of the Registration Act, 1908 which prohibits the registration of such documents or class of documents as opposed to public policy. The assignee, on alienation of land contrary to the conditions of assignment cannot be treated as the owner of the assigned land and the Mandal Revenue Officer will initiate action under law for its resumption.
However, according to Amendment Act No. 21/2008, after resumption, the land can be reassigned to a transferee who had purchased the land in good faith and for valuable consideration on or before 29th January, 2007, if he/she is a landless poor person, and is utilizing the land for agriculture or as house site, as on the date of taking possession by eviction and subject to the condition that the total holding in such cases shall not exceed 5.00 Acres dry land or 2 1/2 Acres of wet land.
47. If any individual has patta land existing to his adjacent D-patta, can LPM be generated by combining the both land in his enjoyment?
Answer by Assignment Department: No, D-patta land and patta land (Zirayathi) should not be clubbed, while generating LPM.
48. Land was assigned to a Cooperative joint Farming Society. The society has been wound up and the land is being enjoyed by some members of the society without regularized orders. Whose name should be recorded in the LPM?
Answer by Assignment Department: The land was assigned to a Co-operative Joint Farming Society with certain conditions, when the joint farming society wound up then the land shall be treated as AWD and should be generated LPM accordingly unless and until it was assigned to the eligible member of the society.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Can we briefly state the conditions in the CJFS assignment and say that land should be resumed given that conditions are violated? And further that if the present member(s) of the society are eligible for assignment, the procedure for issue of D Form Patta to the eligible enjoyers taken up.
49. If the assignee got patta in one survey number and he is enjoying the land and encroaches the adjoining Govt land without any record, what procedure is to be adopted ?
 
   Answer by Assignment Department: If the Assignee is eligible for assignment of encroached land, it shall be assigned2, otherwise the encroacher should be evicted under AP Land Encroachment Act, 1905 and notify it for any public purpose under Section 4(1) ( c) of AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers ) Act, 1977.
50. What is to be done where lands were are assigned without subdivision records/FMB and the assignees are enjoying the lands of their convenient places which is also entered in Revenue records?
Answer by Assignment Department: As per revenue record entries their enjoyment sub-division shall be prepared and recorded in FMB, if there is no objection from any side.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: During the PoLR process, the VRO may report all such cases to Tehsildar who may after due enquiry regarding acceptance by both the assignees change the assignment orders as per enjoyment, followed by modification in the revenue records.
51. If the Physical possession of land of assignees in a survey number varies with recorded extents larger or smaller, what procedure should be adopted in the generation of LPM and thereafter ?
Answer by Assignment Department: When the survey numbers defer with the physical enjoyment extent, the assignees shall be explained the problem and show their assigned land as per the assignment records and then only generate LPM.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION:
In case of surplus extent, LPM may be generated only for the recorded extent.
If the recorded extent is smaller than the records, can eligible occupants be allotted lands in case of availability of unobjectionable government lands following the due process?
52. A codicil is executed by B to M for an assigned land. M is not a legal heir. Should LPM be generated in the name of M?
Answer by Assignment Department: No, assigned land should not be transferred to others except to the legal heirs. LPM should be generated basing on the Codicil / will to the Family Member only.
NOTE FOR CONSIDERATION: Hence, it may be added that the LPM should not be generated in the name of M.
53. In Divisions like Bandar, a large-scale assignment was made during the 1960-1970s under crash assignment programmes.
Answer by Assignment Department: These lands which were largely fallow with lack of fresh water irrigation facilities were converted into aquaculture and got alienated from the original assignees. Since the aquaculture was not brought in to the definition of Agriculture” until recently, the resumption and re-assignment of above lands was not done all this period. The assignment registers of these lands, which were prepared about 60 years back are either lost or not available. The existing entries in adangal are also not reliable. In the absence of details of original assignees, the Tahsildars are not able to update pattadars names in DLR.
2 After amendment Act, 2007, the right of the assignee to seek restoration of land after resumption even if he continues to be landless poor is not absolute. (MRO Vetapalem and another, 2007 (3) ALT 489)
  
   It is true, in Kolleru lake a large scale assignment was made about 50 years back, but in some villages assignment records were not traced, now there is no option available, except to conduct present enjoyment, survey and assigning to present enjoyers, subject to eligibility and duly following assignment rules, otherwise there is a likelihood of filing of WPs. Without conducting enjoyment survey and making fresh assignment, LPM shall not be generated, because large number of ineligible land lords are in cultivation.
54. If in assigned lands, the original assignee transfers the land to another person who is enjoying the land for many years. Will this land comes under patta land or government land as notices are to be served separately during ground truthing? Answer by Assignment Department: As per section 5(1) (2) of the A.P Assigned lands (Prohibition & Transfers) Rules 1977, the transfer of assign lands to another person will be treated violation of conditions and shall be resumed the land and re-assigned to the original assignee or new assignee - or any violations observed with reference to the revenue records and enjoyment, that land shall be treated as AWD. An ex- serviceman who was assigned Govt. Land is not prohibited to sell the assigned land after ten years of grant. (S. Bade vs. Dist. Collector, Visakhapatanm, 2005 (5) ALT 635). But subsequently it was instructed such lands shall not be sold without obtaining NOC from the District Collector (G.O.Ms.No. 307 Rev., dt. 6.6.13).
INAM LANDS
55. ‘A’isenjoyinglandclassifiedas‘InamDry’anditwas‘ServiceInam’dulypurchased from ‘B’. In whose name should LPM be generated.
The provisions under Act 16 of 2013 amended to Inam Abolition Act, 1956 prohibits such transactions to any person in any manner is null and void. Hence, generation of LPM is not feasible.
Note: The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) (Amendment) Act, 2012 or the Act 16 of 2013 that is deemed to have come into force on 26th November, 1956 provides that where any person other than the concerned charitable or religious institution or endowment obtained a patta for such service inam lands, this will be deemed as null and void. The Act 16 of 2013 holds that only the person to whom the inam land was given to render service shall be entitled to continue in the enjoyment of such land provided he continues to render the service for which the land was given. In this case, since A has purchased a service inam land that is impermissible and considered as null and void, LPM should not be generated in his name
56. An extent of Acs.1.30 cents is under the enjoyment of ‘P’ but RSR is not updated as per the Dotted Land Regulation Act, 2017. Should the LPM be generated in the name of P as shown as Govt. Land?
The LPM should not be generated in the name of ‘P’ till receipt of the decision of the District Level Committee( DLC) as per the provisions under AP Dotted lands Act. Till de-notification of such property by the Government, the land remains as G.D. and the pattadar column shall be dots only.
57. UAW lands are assigned. However, there is no record of conversion to modify the nature & classification. What should be done?
If the conversion record is not available, & assignment is found genuine, the records of survey sub-division, AWD conversion, the entries made in ROR-1B have to be
    
   ratified co-relating with the entries of made in 4(1)(c). When the primary records are not available, the UAW land remains UAW and a fresh proposal for converting from UAW to AWD has to be submitted before District Collector/RDO and subsequently, the assignment can be made as per G.O.Ms.250, Revenue (Assgn.I) Department, dated 15.05.2018.
58. For Service inams, no remarks are recorded in the 13th & 14th columns while they are shown as GD in Adangal ?
The Inams should be declared by Form-II and subsequent Gazette publication u/s. 3(6) of Inam Abolition Act, 1956. Further, the amended Act 16 of 2013 prohibits that the service Inams in any manner (service to whole village/Any Institution/charitable institution/Endowment/Land holder) is null and void.
59. Certainminorinamlands,particularlypersonalinamsarenotconvertedintoryotwari land as the concerned landowners failed to prove their rights or their predecessor- in-title rights over the subject land as on the crucial dates prescribed in the act i.e., 07.01.1948 & 26.11.1956. Unless these crucial dates are changed to a recent dates, settlement of these lands are not possible. In DLR, these lands have been continuing with “Inam” nature and the farmers in these lands who are belongs small and marginal of sections society, would not get any benefits of re-survey.
Before conversion of Inam to Ryotwari, the pre-abolition record with name, T.D.No., Cist receipts will be examined to notify the bonafied owner in the Inam Fair Register. If no name was recorded in pre-abolition record and survey operations conducted on later date as per usage and nature of these lands will be considered as Government lands. Further, Survey operations conducted after lapse of decade’s i.e, 1980s and the lands are being cultivation by the ryots, the Director of Survey & Settlement will recommend the Government to fix up cut-off date for considering the claims of the ryots for grant of pattas.
60. Inams given to Chakalis, Mangalis etc., are subsequently sold away and the new pattadars appear from the 10(1) accounts prepared in the 1980s. We are treating them as settled ryotwari lands. Is this correct?
The provision of Act 16 of 2013 provides no rights and the ryotwari patta granted earlier are also null & void. A decision can be taken after appropriate amendments/clarifications given to the Act of 16 of 2013.
LPM Related
61. A had 1 acre of land in Sy No 100/1. Ac 0.20 cents have been taken by government for building a road (without formal acquisition) several years ago and sub-division has not been affected. How much of land is to be shown in his LPM?
The LPM should reflect the actual enjoyment on the ground by A i.e. Ac 0.80 cents. It is to be verified from the requisition department if the acquisition proceedings were carried out or alternate procedures of land assembly like voluntary land donation. Further, the 8A register of the Tahsildar office/FMB may be traced to find out whether the sub division had been ordered and carried out. For the 20 cents, for which acquisition proceedings may have to be initiated, the nature of land/classification will be government/road.
62. A owned 8.5 acres of land. 1.5 acres of land was acquired for the railways in 2001 though mutation was not affected. He continues to cultivate on the land and shows proof of his enjoyment and also produces land revenue receipts. He claims non-
    
   receipt of compensation and insists on recording entire extent of land in his LPM. What should be done in this case?
The LPM should reflect the actual extent in enjoyment by A at the time of resurvey, excluding the land acquired for the railways. The land acquisition awards should be verified if the compensation was paid to the landowner or deposited in civil deposits. The village records should be verified to see if the possession of land was formally handed over to the requisitioning department and if not, necessary steps may be taken in this regard.
63. Landowner C has 3.45 acres of land extent of land recorded in the Adangal and his pattadar passbook. The field measurement is 3.20 acres. How much of land extent should be included in the LPM?
The LPMs should mirror the actual position on the ground subject to consent of the landowners or be included in the disputed category. In case the enjoyment does not match with the records, the Tehsildar may verify records held by C (sale deed, Partition deed, Succession, will deed etc.) to rule out wrong entry if any in the Adangal and Pattadar Passbook. Further, the entire survey number has to be surveyed and if all the interested persons agree to the extent per the records/enjoyment, the Mobile Magistrate may record respective extents and the LPMs will accordingly reflect the extent. However, if the affected landowners do not agree and chose to go for appeal, the same may be reflected in the Land Register as disputed category.
64. Bisenjoying4.5acresoflandwhilehisrecordsshow4acres.Hisneighbourshavean extent of 3.2 and 2.3 acres in the records and their area after actual measurement is 3 acres and 2 acres respectively? How much land extent should be recorded against each in the LPM?
Notices have to be issued to B and his neighbours and if all agree to the extents as per actual enjoyment, the LPMs may reflect the extents enjoyed. In case, they do not agree, the LPMs will reflect the decision of the Prescribed Officer (Mobile Magistrate) as per the AP Surveys and Boundaries Act, 1923. Incase the landowners go for appeal, the Land Register may reflect the same.
65. A’snameappearsintheAdangalandvillagerecordsbothfortheancestralproperty as well as his self-acquired property. He and his son have mutually divided the properties and enjoying on the ground. Should a partition be registered? Should there be separate LPMs generated as per their share. What are the procedures to be followed? Till the time the procedure is complete, should they be given one LPM There is no need for a partition deed to be registered when both the son and father accept for the division of the property and agree with the extents. There shall be separate LPM for son and father as per their respective shares in the partition deed. Further, as for affecting necessary changes in the RoR which will follow the resurvey process, the partition deed should be properly stamped as per Art. 40, of Schedule 1-A of the Indian Stamp Act and the recording authority should record statements from all concerned and keep a complete record of enquiry (ref,CSS & Lr’s Ref. No. ROR/A/444/89 dated 31st May, 1989).
66. Mhas2.20acresinSyNo35/1andBhas3.10acresinSyNo.26/2ButAhasbeen enjoying Bs land and vice versa for over 25 years. How do we fix the land extents in the LPMs, as per enjoyment or ownership?
Notices should be issued to M and B regarding their recorded and enjoyed extents. The LPMS can reflect their share as per enjoyment if ‘M’ and ‘B’ agree for the same
 
   and to be entered in the disputes register if they disagree. Necessary steps and due process for registration of the lands and entry in the revenue records should follow.
67. A, B, and C are the sons of D who passed away couple of years ago. They stay in a joint family and do not wish the land to be partitioned? What should be the procedure and how should LPM be generated?
When D, the pattadar is dead, the logical step should be to record his legal heirs as pattadars as per their share as land cannot be continued in the name of dead person. They have to either partition the land as per their enjoyment or share or agree to record name one of the sons (generally the elder son as the Karta of the Hindu joint family). In case they want to continue in one person’s name, one LPM may be generated and if they decide to partition, different LPMs will have to be generated.
68. X, Y and Z are enjoying ancestral property without registration. Can their actual extent be reflected in the LPMs?
LPMs can reflect their land extents as per their enjoyment/share in the ancestral property after local enquiry/consent of all legal heirs and a partition deed. Due process for record correction should follow during the resurvey process.
69. Xhasregisteredhislandcoupleofyearsbackbutthesurveynumberandsubdivision is wrongly registered. At the time of LPM generation, what is to be done?
LPM can be generated as per enjoyment with the correct survey and sub-division number provided, he gets his sale deed rectified by the registration department.
70. M,NandOarebrothersandhavepurchased6acresoflandtogether15yearsback through a registered sale deed. Mutation has not been done. They claim to have equal shares but are enjoying slightly unequal shares on the ground. Should LPM generated for equal shares or should it be as per actual enjoyment?
If enjoyment is different from records, the Mobile Magistrate may take a decision based on the mutual consent of landowners/verification of records/ valid partition deed. LPM may be generated accordingly.
71. Though the lands have been sold and purchased several times (registered), the name of the actual landowner is appearing in the Adangal and RoR. Can the names of new owners be shown in the LPMs based on registration deed while mutation process goes on?
All such cases pending for mutation should be taken up early on in the process by VRO and concerned landowners may be advised to complete the mutation process so that their name can be included in the pattadar column against the given LPM in the land register.
72. XhasnotpaidconversionchargesforNALAbutisutilisingthelandfornon-agriculture purpose. Should LPM be created for agriculture or non- agricultural land? According to Section 6 of the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Land (Conversion for Non- Agricultural Purposes) Act, 2006, if any agricultural land has been put to non- agricultural purpose without payment of the required Conversation Tax, land shall be deemed to have been converted into non-agricultural purpose imposing a fine of 50 percent over and above the conversion fee. Also, any fee or penalty which remains unpaid after the specified date shall be recoverable as per the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864. LPM may be created for non-
 
   agricultural land while payment of applicable charges including penalty by ‘X’ may be taken up by the concerned authorities.
73. IfthereisanyexistingstructuresinPattaland,whichisneartoVillageSitePoramboke, then should LPM be generated for agriculture or non-agriculture land?
The cluster of houses at any place in the village is to be demarcated as extended Gramakantam as per the amended AP Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2021. The structures in the extended gramakantam are to be treated as non- agricultural land subject to payment of necessary tax for conversion of agricultural land. So, LPM can be generated as non-agricultural while payment of applicable charges including penalty may be taken up by the concerned revenue authorities.
74. A and B are brothers. Both are enjoying the ancestral land on field in equal shares but while A’s name is entered in webland, B’s is not and he does not have any documentary evidences. Now both are asking for generation of LPMs. What is to be done in this case?
LPM can be generated as per the decision of the MM i.e. If A does not object to the equal share of B and enters into a partition deed. However, if A objects, A’s name may be entered in the Land Register and place in the dispute category.
75. ‘X’ is a non-tribal enjoying tribal land in the Agency area. Can he be recorded as a LPM holder?
The Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Areas Land Transfer Regulation 1/59 as amended by 1/70, explicitly prohibits any person in a Scheduled Area from transferring lands to anyone other than a Scheduled Tribe. Such transactions are considered as null and void u/s 3(1) of the Regulation and the transferee non-tribal is not entitled to the property. Hence there is no question of recording of a non-tribal holder’s name in the LPM.
76. Landisinthenameofthediety.However,Yisinpossession,enjoymentandhasvalid registration deeds and pattadar passbook. Should LPM be generated in the name of Y or incorporated as an Endowment land?
The correct legal position is that the idol is the juristic person recognized by law and in this juristic person the dedicated property vests. An obligation has been cast upon the State under the provisions of the Endowments Act to protect endowment/temple lands. Lands in the name of the deity should necessarily be recorded as Endowment land and necessary proceedings initiated against Y under the Andhra Pradesh Land Encroachment Act, 1905. However, it may be useful to also verify who has registered the land and whose name the land in question is recorded as per RSR, Diglot or SFA prior to initiating action under the 1905 Act.
77. Land is recorded in the name of deceased B. Should LPM be generated in the name of B and C who are his legal heirs of the ancestral property and presently enjoying the land?. Should the land extent be according to their share or as per enjoyment? Land extent can be recorded as per their enjoyment in LPM if agreed by both B and C, based on the partition deed. Alternately, if they want the boundaries to be changed based on their share, this can be decided by the Mobile Magistrate after due enquiry and LPM generated accordingly. If either of the same is not acceptable to both of them, land may continue to be shown in the name of B and included in the dispute category to be decided as per Rule 9 (1) (c) (ii) and decide their shares.
 
   78. A has transferred 5 acres of land to his daughter at the time of marriage and she is cultivating the land. Can her name be incorporated in the LPM prior to validation u/s 5A of the RoR Act?
Rule 22, Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books Rules, 1989 (for regularization of transfer other than by registered document) requires persons to be recorded as occupants in Adangal/Pahani Patrika or in the Record of Rights. Subject to this requirement, the validation process can be taken up under u/s 5A of the AP Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 1971. The name of the daughter can be provisionally included and finalized in the Land Register after the validation u/s 5A.
79. Though the lands have been sold and purchased several times (registered), the name of the actual landowner, X is appearing in the Adangal and RoR. Can the name of new owner, Y be shown in the LPMs based on registration deed while mutation process goes on?
In all such cases, the mutation process shall be initiated early on. Under the AP Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbook Act, 1971, the entries in the [title deed and pass book] may be corrected either suo motu or on an application made to the Mandal Revenue Officer. The name of the pattadar may be entered in the Land Register after the completion of the mutation process.
 